# Upgrading

It is prefered that you do a fresh install, as some of the newer features
depend on those features being represented in the configuration files. However,
if you are determined to do an upgrade, the instructions follow.

Upgrading Guiprep involves installing the new version in a directory and
copying a few files over from the prior install. This document walks you
through all the steps. 

This document assumes you have Guiprep installed in `c:\guiprep`. If you have
this installed in a different location, you will need to adjust the paths
below accordingly. Despite the instructions using Windows paths, the overall
steps below work for all operating systems.

1. Backup your old installation. It is highly recommended that you backup your
   prior Guiprep installation before continuing.
2. Rename your old Guiprep directory (eg: `c:\guiprep`) to a new one
   (eg: `c:\guiprep-old`).
3. Follow the instructions in [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md) to install Guiprep
   for your operating system, including any helper applications, noting that
   on Windows, if you have not already done so, you must install Strawberry 
   Perl _before_ trying to install and run Guiprep.
   _Note the requirement to run `install_cpan_modules.pl` to ensure all
   necessary Perl modules are installed._
4. Review and possibly copy over changes made to Guiprep files.
   * The `setting.rc` file stores Guiprep configurations. This file is
     automatically generated by Guiprep if it doesn't exist. Newer versions 
	 of Guiprep will include updated defaults. It is recommended that you 
	 **do not copy** this file from your old version but let the new Guiprep 
	 create the file afresh. You may then have some preferences you want to 
	 change within Guiprep which will be saved in this file.

You can now run Guiprep from the new installation directory.
